.planning/phases/05-drop-in-acceleration/05-02-SUMMARY.md, before:

---
phase: 05-drop-in-acceleration
plan: 02
subsystem: research
tags: [research, drop-in, prototype]

requires:
  - phase: 05-drop-in-acceleration/05-01
    provides: Constraints and approach choices
provides:
  - Drop-in adapter prototype that wraps js-host runner
  - Runnable example showing two deterministic ticks
  - Discovery notes referencing the prototype
affects: []

tech-stack:
  added: []
  patterns: [adapter-based wrapping, tick-level commits]

key-files:
  created:
    - prototypes/dropin/adapter.js
    - prototypes/dropin/example.js
  modified:
    - .planning/phases/05-drop-in-acceleration/DISCOVERY.md

key-decisions:
  - Demonstrating drop-in acceleration via a DOM-equivalent adapter proves the concept without introducing new host semantics.

patterns-established:
  - Prototype logs serialization/fingerprint per tick to prove determinism.

issues-created: []

duration: 8 min
completed: 2026-01-14
---

# Phase 5 Plan 2: Drop-in Acceleration Prototype Summary

**Adapter-based drop-in prototype funnels imperative writes into deterministic js-host commits and logs serialization/fingerprint per tick.**

## Performance

- **Duration:** 8 min
- **Started:** 2026-01-14T05:03:00Z
- **Completed:** 2026-01-14T05:11:00Z
- **Tasks:** 3
- **Files modified:** 3

## Accomplishments
- Built `prototypes/dropin/adapter.js` to queue DOM-like writes into PatchOps and commit via js-host runner.
- Added `prototypes/dropin/example.js` showing two ticks with deterministic serialization and fingerprint logs.
- Extended discovery notes to describe the prototype and link to the adapter.

## Task Commits

Each task recorded in the discovery doc (research output only).

## Files Created/Modified
- `prototypes/dropin/adapter.js` - Drop-in adapter targeting js-host runner
- `prototypes/dropin/example.js` - Example script showing commits per tick
- `.planning/phases/05-drop-in-acceleration/DISCOVERY.md` - Updated notes referencing prototype

## Decisions Made
- Drop-in acceleration is best demonstrated via the DOM-equivalent adapter; monkey-patching the real DOM remains deferred.

## Deviations from Plan

None.

## Issues Encountered

None.

## Next Step

Expand the prototype by wiring a framework adapter (e.g., React renderer) and test real DOM event bridging.

---
*Phase: 05-drop-in-acceleration*
*Completed: 2026-01-14*

Commit message:

feat(05-02): add event bridge and widget proto

.planning/phases/05-drop-in-acceleration/05-02-SUMMARY.md, after:

---
phase: 05-drop-in-acceleration
plan: 02
subsystem: research
tags: [research, drop-in, prototype]

requires:
  - phase: 05-drop-in-acceleration/05-01
    provides: Constraints and approach choices
provides:
  - Drop-in adapter prototype that wraps js-host runner
  - Runnable example showing two deterministic ticks
  - Discovery notes referencing the prototype
affects: []

tech-stack:
  added: []
  patterns: [adapter-based wrapping, tick-level commits]

key-files:
  created:
    - prototypes/dropin/adapter.js
    - prototypes/dropin/example.js
  modified:
    - .planning/phases/05-drop-in-acceleration/DISCOVERY.md

key-decisions:
  - Demonstrating drop-in acceleration via a DOM-equivalent adapter proves the concept without introducing new host semantics.

patterns-established:
  - Prototype logs serialization/fingerprint per tick to prove determinism.

issues-created: []

duration: 8 min
completed: 2026-01-14
---

# Phase 5 Plan 2: Drop-in Acceleration Prototype Summary

**Adapter-based drop-in prototype funnels imperative writes into deterministic js-host commits and logs serialization/fingerprint per tick.**

## Performance

- **Duration:** 8 min
- **Started:** 2026-01-14T05:03:00Z
- **Completed:** 2026-01-14T05:11:00Z
- **Tasks:** 3
- **Files modified:** 3

## Accomplishments
- Built `prototypes/dropin/adapter.js` to queue DOM-like writes into PatchOps and commit via js-host runner.
- Added `prototypes/dropin/example.js` showing two ticks with deterministic serialization and fingerprint logs.
- Extended discovery notes to describe the prototype and link to the adapter.
- Demonstrated event bridging by registering a click listener and dispatching widget events after each tick, proving third-party hooks can run without breaking the commit semantics.

## Task Commits

Each task recorded in the discovery doc (research output only).

## Files Created/Modified
- `prototypes/dropin/adapter.js` - Drop-in adapter targeting js-host runner
- `prototypes/dropin/example.js` - Example script showing commits per tick
- `.planning/phases/05-drop-in-acceleration/DISCOVERY.md` - Updated notes referencing prototype

## Decisions Made
- Drop-in acceleration is best demonstrated via the DOM-equivalent adapter; monkey-patching the real DOM remains deferred.

## Deviations from Plan

None.

## Issues Encountered

None.

## Next Step

Expand the prototype by wiring a framework adapter (e.g., React renderer) and test real DOM event bridging.

---
*Phase: 05-drop-in-acceleration*
*Completed: 2026-01-14*
